.TH LLMESH\-CLIENT 1 "April 2026" "llmesh" "llmesh Manual"
.SH NAME
llmesh\-client \- connect a local llama.cpp server to the llmesh router
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B llmesh\-client
[\fB\-config\fR\ \fIpath\fR]
[\fB\-version\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B llmesh\-client
is the worker component of the llmesh system.
It establishes a persistent WebSocket connection to an llmesh router,
advertises the models the local
.B llama.cpp
server supports,
and processes inference jobs dispatched by the router.
.PP
Streaming token deltas are forwarded back to the router in real time,
which proxies them to the waiting HTTP caller.
.PP
The client also optionally exposes a local OpenAI-compatible HTTP endpoint
(configured via
.BR local_api_addr ).
Requests to this endpoint are routed directly to the appropriate
.B llama.cpp
backend without passing through the router — useful for other processes on
the same host that need low-latency direct access.
Local requests share the same concurrency pool as router-dispatched jobs;
when a slot is contested, local requests take priority over queued router jobs.
Active local requests appear in the client status line alongside router jobs.
.PP
On disconnect the client reconnects automatically using exponential back\-off:
1\ s, 2\ s, 4\ s, 8\ s, 16\ s, 32\ s, 60\ s maximum.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-config " path"
Path to the YAML configuration file.
Defaults to
.IR /config.yaml .
.TP
.B \-version
Print version information and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file is a YAML document.
A minimal example:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
router_url: "wss://llm.example.com/ws/client"
router_token: "ct-alice-a1b2c3d4e5f6g7h8"
models:
  - endpoint: "http://localhost:8080"
.fi
.RE
.SS Fields
.TP
.B router_url
WebSocket URL of the llmesh router.
Use
.B wss://
for TLS-encrypted connections (recommended in production) or
.B ws://
for unencrypted local connections.
The path component must be
.IR /ws/client .
.TP
.B router_token
Client token created via the router admin UI (Client Tokens page).
Tokens begin with
.IR ct\- .
This value authenticates this client instance to the router.
Keep it secret; it grants the ability to receive and process jobs.
.TP
.B max_concurrent
Maximum number of simultaneous inference requests across both
router-dispatched jobs and local API requests combined.
Optional.
When omitted (or set to zero) the limit is auto-detected from the slot count
.RB ( total_slots )
reported by the llama.cpp server, falling back to
.B 1
if the server does not advertise one.
Set an explicit positive integer to override.
.TP
.B local_api_addr
Bind address for a local OpenAI-compatible HTTP endpoint.
Optional; disabled when omitted.
When set (e.g.\~\fI:8089\fR), the client listens on that address and serves:
.RS
.TP
.B POST /v1/chat/completions
Accepts an OpenAI chat completions request.
The
.I model
field is used to select the llama.cpp backend; the request is then forwarded
directly without going through the router.
Streaming (SSE) and non-streaming responses are both supported.
.TP
.B GET /v1/models
Returns the list of models this client has registered.
.RE
.IP
Local requests share the same concurrency pool as router-dispatched jobs
(capacity set by
.BR max_concurrent ).
When a slot is available and both a local request and a queued router job
are waiting, the local request is served first.
Active local requests are counted in the status line alongside router jobs.
.IP
The local endpoint is unauthenticated unless
.B local_api_token
is set, and local requests take priority over router jobs, so a non-loopback
bind lets anyone with network reach obtain inference and starve router traffic.
Prefer a loopback bind (e.g.\~\fI127.0.0.1:8089\fR); if you must bind a routable
interface, set
.BR local_api_token .
.TP
.B local_api_token
Optional bearer token required on the local endpoint. When set, callers must
send
.IR "Authorization: Bearer <token>" .
Empty (the default) leaves the endpoint open.
.TP
.B models
List of model definitions.
Each entry maps a llama.cpp endpoint to the model name callers will use.
.RS
.TP
.B name
Model identifier as sent by API callers in the
.I model
field of their request (e.g.\~\fIllama3.2:3b\fR).
Optional.
When omitted, the client auto-detects the name from the endpoint's
.I /v1/models
response when it connects.
The router matches this name exactly when selecting a client for a job.
.TP
.B endpoint
Base URL of the
.B llama.cpp
HTTP server for this model (e.g.\~\fIhttp://localhost:8080\fR).
The client appends
.I /v1/chat/completions
when forwarding jobs.
.TP
.B api_key
Optional.
When set, sent to the endpoint as
.I "Authorization: Bearer <key>"
on every request.
Use for backends that require authentication (vLLM, LM Studio,
.B llama.cpp
.IR \-\-api\-key ,
hosted OpenAI-compatible servers).
.TP
.B headers
Optional map of extra HTTP headers sent to the endpoint on every request
(e.g.\~a gateway needing
.I x\-api\-key
or tenant routing).
A header set here overrides one the client would otherwise send, including
.IR Authorization .
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Run with a custom config file
.nf
llmesh\-client \-config /etc/llmesh/client.yaml
.fi
.SS Run inside Docker
Clone the llmesh repository, place your filled-in configuration at
.IR client/config.yaml ,
then build and run from the repository root:
.nf
docker compose \-f docker\-compose.client.yml up \-d
.fi
The compose file builds the image from source.
.SS Run directly on the host
Start llama.cpp on port 8080:
.nf
llama\-server \-m ./models/llama3.2\-3b.gguf \-\-port 8080
.fi
Start the client:
.nf
llmesh\-client \-config ./config.yaml
.fi
.SS Local API endpoint
Enable the local endpoint in
.IR config.yaml :
.nf
local_api_addr: ":8089"
.fi
Other processes on the same machine can then send requests directly
to the llama.cpp backend without going through the router:
.nf
curl http://localhost:8089/v1/chat/completions \\
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \\
  -d '{"model":"llama3.2:3b","messages":[{"role":"user","content":"hi"}]}'
.fi
These requests appear in the client status line as active jobs and
compete for inference slots with router-dispatched work, with local
requests taking priority when a slot is contested.
.SS Multiple models on one host
Run a separate llama.cpp instance on a distinct port for each model:
.nf
# Terminal 1
llama\-server \-m llama3.2\-3b.gguf \-\-port 8080
# Terminal 2
llama\-server \-m mistral\-7b.gguf \-\-port 8081
.fi
Configure both in
.IR config.yaml :
.nf
models:
  - name: "llama3.2:3b"
    endpoint: "http://localhost:8080"
  - name: "mistral\-7b"
    endpoint: "http://localhost:8081"
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /config.yaml
Default configuration file path (inside the Docker container).
On the host, pass an explicit path with
.BR \-config .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The client logs to standard output in the following format:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
2026/04/16 12:00:00 llmesh\-client starting, router=wss://... models=2 max_concurrent=4
2026/04/16 12:00:01 ws: connected
2026/04/16 12:00:01 ws: registered 2 model(s)
.fi
.RE
.PP
A persistent
.I "dial failed"
message indicates a network or authentication problem \(em verify the router URL
and token, and check that the router is reachable from this host.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Clean shutdown (SIGINT / SIGTERM).
.TP
.B 1
Fatal error: bad configuration, missing required fields, or unrecoverable startup failure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.B llama\-server(1)
.PP
llama.cpp project:
.I https://github.com/ggml-org/llama.cpp
.SH BUGS
Report issues at the project repository.
