.TH LLMESH\-SHIM 1 "May 2026" "llmesh" "llmesh Manual"
.SH NAME
llmesh\-shim \- connect cloud LLM APIs or local command adapters to the llmesh router
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B llmesh\-shim
[\fB\-config\fR\ \fIpath\fR]
[\fB\-version\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B llmesh\-shim
is a worker component of the llmesh system that dispatches inference jobs to
external HTTP APIs (OpenAI, Anthropic, or any OpenAI-compatible endpoint) or
to arbitrary shell command adapters, rather than to a local
.B llama.cpp
server.
.PP
The shim establishes a persistent WebSocket connection to an llmesh router,
advertises the models listed in its configuration, and processes inference
jobs dispatched by the router.
No local GPU is required.
.PP
Streaming token deltas are forwarded back to the router in real time,
which proxies them to the waiting HTTP caller.
.PP
On disconnect the shim reconnects automatically using exponential back\-off:
1\ s, 2\ s, 4\ s, 8\ s, 16\ s, 32\ s, 60\ s maximum.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-config " path"
Path to the YAML configuration file.
Defaults to
.IR /config.yaml .
.TP
.B \-version
Print version information and exit.
.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file is a YAML document.
A minimal example using an OpenAI backend:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
router_url: "wss://llm.example.com/ws/client"
router_token: "ct-your-token-here"
max_concurrent: 4
models:
  - name: "gpt-4o"
    context_size: 128000
    backend:
      type: http
      url: "https://api.openai.com"
      format: openai
      auth_type: bearer
      auth_value: "${OPENAI_API_KEY}"
.fi
.RE
.SS Top-level Fields
.TP
.B router_url
WebSocket URL of the llmesh router.
Use
.B wss://
for TLS-encrypted connections (recommended in production) or
.B ws://
for unencrypted local connections.
The path component must be
.IR /ws/client .
.TP
.B router_token
Client token created via the router admin UI (Client Tokens page).
Tokens begin with
.IR ct\- .
Keep it secret; it grants the ability to receive and process jobs.
.TP
.B max_concurrent
Maximum number of inference requests processed simultaneously.
Must be a positive integer; defaults to
.B 4
if unset or zero.
.TP
.B metrics_addr
Optional address for the expvar HTTP metrics endpoint (e.g.\~\fI:9092\fR).
If unset, the endpoint is not started.
.TP
.B models
List of model definitions.
Each entry maps a model name to a backend.
.SS Model Fields
.TP
.B name
Model identifier as sent by API callers in the
.I model
field of their request (e.g.\~\fIgpt-4o\fR).
The router matches this name exactly when selecting a worker for a job.
.TP
.B context_size
Optional context window size in tokens, reported to the router.
Set this to help the router's scheduler make better decisions.
If omitted or zero the router uses a default estimate.
.TP
.B backend
Backend configuration block.
See
.B BACKENDS
below.
.SH BACKENDS
.SS HTTP Backend (\fItype: http\fR)
Routes requests to any HTTP API that speaks OpenAI or Anthropic protocol.
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
backend:
  type: http
  url: "https://api.openai.com"
  format: openai        # or: anthropic
  auth_type: bearer     # or: header, none
  auth_value: "${OPENAI_API_KEY}"
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B url
Base URL of the upstream API (e.g.\~\fIhttps://api.openai.com\fR).
Must use
.B http
or
.B https
scheme.
The shim appends
.I /v1/chat/completions
for
.I format=openai
and
.I /v1/messages
for
.IR format=anthropic .
.TP
.B format
Wire format for requests and responses.
.I openai
— compatible with OpenAI and any OpenAI-compatible server (Ollama, LM Studio, vLLM, etc.).
.I anthropic
— compatible with Anthropic Claude APIs.
.TP
.B auth_type
Authentication method.
.I bearer
— sets
.B Authorization: Bearer <auth_value>
header.
.I header
— sets the header named by
.B auth_header
to
.BR auth_value .
.I none
— no authentication header (for local or unauthenticated servers).
.TP
.B auth_header
Header name when
.IR auth_type=header .
For example,
.IR X-API-Key .
.TP
.B auth_value
Token or key value.
Supports
.I ${VAR}
syntax; the value is expanded from the environment at startup.
.SS Command Adapter Backend (\fItype: command\fR)
Runs an arbitrary shell command for each inference request.
The shim writes a JSON-encoded
.B InferenceRequest
to the command's stdin and reads the response from stdout.
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
backend:
  type: command
  command: "python3 /path/to/adapter.py"
.fi
.RE
.TP
.B command
Shell command to run (passed to
.IR sh\ \-c ).
Supports
.I ${VAR}
syntax expanded from the environment at startup.
.PP
.SS Command Adapter Protocol
.B Batch output
(stream=false) \(em one JSON line on stdout:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
{"content":"response text","finish_reason":"stop"}
.fi
.RE
.PP
.B Streaming output
(stream=true) \(em NDJSON, one JSON line per chunk, last line has
.IR done:true :
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
{"delta":"Hello","done":false}
{"delta":" world","done":false}
{"delta":"","done":true,"finish_reason":"stop"}
.fi
.RE
.PP
Usage counts are optional on the final
.I done=true
line:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
{"delta":"","done":true,"finish_reason":"stop",
 "usage":{"prompt_tokens":10,"completion_tokens":5,"total_tokens":15}}
.fi
.RE
.PP
Any output written to stderr by the command is captured and logged as a
warning by the shim; it does not fail the request.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B OPENAI_API_KEY
Typical variable for OpenAI API keys.
Injected into
.I auth_value
fields that contain
.IR ${OPENAI_API_KEY} .
.TP
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
Typical variable for Anthropic API keys.
Injected into
.I auth_value
fields that contain
.IR ${ANTHROPIC_API_KEY} .
.PP
Any environment variable may be referenced with
.I ${VAR}
in
.B auth_value
and
.B command
fields.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Run with a custom config file
.nf
llmesh\-shim \-config /etc/llmesh/shim.yaml
.fi
.SS Run inside Docker (recommended)
Download
.IR docker\-compose.shim.yml ,
.IR config.yaml.example ,
and set your API keys:
.nf
export OPENAI_API_KEY=sk\-...
export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk\-ant\-...
docker compose \-f docker\-compose.shim.yml up \-d
.fi
.SS OpenAI backend
.nf
models:
  \- name: "gpt\-4o"
    context_size: 128000
    backend:
      type: http
      url: "https://api.openai.com"
      format: openai
      auth_type: bearer
      auth_value: "${OPENAI_API_KEY}"
.fi
.SS Anthropic backend
.nf
models:
  \- name: "claude\-sonnet\-4\-5"
    context_size: 200000
    backend:
      type: http
      url: "https://api.anthropic.com"
      format: anthropic
      auth_type: bearer
      auth_value: "${ANTHROPIC_API_KEY}"
.fi
.SS Ollama (local OpenAI-compatible server)
.nf
models:
  \- name: "llama3.2:3b"
    backend:
      type: http
      url: "http://localhost:11434"
      format: openai
      auth_type: none
.fi
.SS Shell command adapter
.nf
models:
  \- name: "my\-model"
    backend:
      type: command
      command: "python3 /opt/adapters/my_model.py"
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /config.yaml
Default configuration file path (inside the Docker container).
On the host, pass an explicit path with
.BR \-config .
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
The shim logs to stderr.
The status line (when stderr is a terminal) shows:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
[llmesh\-shim] ● | jobs 1/4 | done 42 | err 0 | tok 18432 | up 5m30s
.fi
.RE
.PP
.B ●
(filled circle) indicates an active router connection;
.B ○
(empty circle) indicates disconnected or reconnecting.
.PP
A persistent
.I "dial failed"
message indicates a network or authentication problem \(em verify the router URL
and token, and check that the router is reachable from this host.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Clean shutdown (SIGINT / SIGTERM).
.TP
.B 1
Fatal error: bad configuration, missing required fields, or unrecoverable startup failure.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR llmesh\-client (1)
.PP
llmesh project repository for source and issue tracker.
